# cs300-analysis-and-design-portfolio
Welcome to my CS 300 DSA - Analysis and Design Porfolio Repository!!!

## Reflection
The primary problem I solved in the projects in this course centered around representing, searching, maintaining and displaying collections of information using different data structures.  I implemented linked lists, vectors, hash tables, and binary trees and then used them to store specific C++ classes representing pieces of information (either bids for purchase, or course data, depending on the project).  The different data structures used to represent the collection of data all had different benefits and tradeoffs in terms of memory, complexity, and execution performance.  It was important to understand the data structures underlying strengths and limitations so that I could either work within the strengths and weaknesses, or in certain cases, recommend that a different data structure be used.  For example, in project 1, I recommended the selection of the binary tree as the data structure used to hold courses since searching for specific courses and displaying course information in a sort order were important requirements.  In certain cases, I used more than one data structure to solve a problem.  For example, I used a set to store the valid course numbers so that I did not have to search across the entire collection to determine whether a course existed.  Otherwise, the algorithm to validate that all the prerequisites were valid would have been agonizingly slow for most data structures since it would require potentially traversing the entire data structure for each prerequisite until it was found (or all if not found).  Considering most courses had one or more course attributes, this would have been an exponential impact.  I feel I have a much better understanding of the underlying data structures, particularly hash tables and binary trees, than I did before I took this course.  For instance, in hash tables I can now see how table size and key algorithm generation come into play.  Additionally, I am better positioned to quantitatively analyze the relative performance of different algorithms.  I have programmed for many, many years, so other than increasing my familiarity with C++, it did not significantly change my approach to writing programs that are readable, maintainable, and adaptable.  Given more time, however, I would have separated the underlying classes representing data from the data structures to create a completely generic implementation of each of the data structures, using generic keys, and pointers to the data containted within the data structure...perhaps requiring that the classes representing pieces of information implement a common interface.  Of course, this would mean slightly more complex interactions when working with the data structures, and additional requirements for deconstructing them.

Thanks for viewing my portfolio for this class!

###Examples of work from this class
* (ProjectTwo - Excerpt.cpp)[ProjectTwo%20-%20Excerpt.cpp] - Excerpt of a C++ class to demonstrate sorting and printing a course list using a binary tree
* ()[]
